# 247th AAS Meeting Abstract 
We present high-resolution X-ray image reconstructions of the nuclear region of the prototypical FR II double radio galaxy Cygnus A, using the Joint LIkelihood DECOnvolution algorithm (Jolideco). Cygnus A (z = 0.0561) is the most luminous radio galaxy in the local (z < 0.1) universe with large scale jets that shock the surrounding intracluster medium (ICM). Embedded in a cooling core galaxy cluster, the nucleus is highly absorbed in X-rays, allowing study of the jet’s impact on the ICM in close proximity to the central supermassive black hole. The Jolideco algorithm performs joint likelihood deconvolution with a patch-based image prior informed by astronomical surveys, and is capable of reconstructing sub-arcsecond scale spatial features in the presence of Poisson noise. We reconstruct the central ~10x10 arcsecond region of Cygnus A using the 655ks of observations available in the Chandra X-ray Observatory archives, collected in 2015–2017 (ACIS) and 2021 (HRC). Using both simulated and empirical point spread functions, we generate broad-band reconstructions of the soft (0.5-2.0keV) and hard (2.0-5.0keV, 5.0-7.0keV) X-ray images, as well as narrow-band reconstructions containing specific X-ray emission lines (Ne IX/X, Si VII–XIII, Fe Kα, and Fe XXV/XXVI). The reconstructed images reveal a clear biconical structure in the soft X-ray band aligned with the jet axis, and extended emission in the hard X-ray band exhibiting ring-like morphology surrounding a central point source. The hard band X-ray morphology suggests the presence of a scattering medium surrounding the nuclear region, potentially coincident with the known obscuring dusty torus. The soft band X-ray morphology is consistent with emission from shocks resulting from the jet’s impact on the ICM. Cross-comparison with JWST images shows strong agreement between Pa α emission and the outer edge of the approaching side of the soft band X-ray bicone. No significant excess X-ray emission is detected at the known location of the transient radio source Cygnus A-2. Our results highlight the effectiveness of Jolideco for analyzing complex AGN environments and suggest broader applications across the Chandra X-ray Observatory archival data. 
